---
layout: post
title: "Use git locally even if you're stuck on a project using TFS"
date: 2016-05-04 12:00:00
excerpt: "I gave a 15 minute talk about git-tfs and how it enables you to do that"
categories: [git]
comments: false
image:
  feature: opinion.png
---

Hey. I gave a short at work about git-tfs. git-tfs is the two-way bridge between TFS (Team Foundation Server) and git. It fetches TFS commits into a git repository, and lets you push your updates back to TFS.

A common use of it is to transfer a repo from TFS to git, but it's also possible to use it and get some benefits as an individual on a team that hasn't transferred yet. You can use git locally and still work with a TFS server. I think this is superior for a number of reasons. You can use better merge tool, you use branching locallyand you can fetch changes from the server without potentially trashing your local work. 


In this talk I discuss that usecase, and also introduce some the basic concepts. The audio was recorded, and it's about a 15 minute listen.

<br/>
<iframe width="80%" height="200" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/262457524&color=%23ec9c5c&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true&visual=true"></iframe>
<br/><br/><br/>

I talk about a "cool feature", that lets you associate shelvesets with a work item. This is was a niche feature, but something that happened to be really important to our workflow. It's also something I contributed to 'git-ts' myself.

I go on a bit of a tangent about "magic branches". I think it would have been faster if I'd just said, "tfs branches appear in git as remote branches". You'll see when I get there.

You also can't see (because it's just audio) what command I use, so here they are:

#### Cloning

Clone everything

> git tfs list-remote-branches http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection

Or just clone a project

> git tfs clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project

Or, if you're impatient and only want to work from the last changeset

> git tfs quick-clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project

Or, if you're slightly less impatient and want a specific changeset.
(This is a great choice to balance time to clone and have a decent amount of history)

> git tfs quick-clone http://tfs:8080/tfs/DefaultCollection $/some_project -c=145

#### Fetching
> git tfs fetch

#### Shelving
> git tfs shelve MyShelvesetName

#### Checking in
Using a series of check-ins, one for each of your commits

> git tfs rcheckin

or squashing your commits into a single TFS checkin:

> git tfs checkin

Magic strings to put in a commit in order to resolve work items

> git-tfs-work-item: \<id\>

> git-tfs-work-item: \<id\> \<action\>